README.md, before:

﻿# Start Page

A modular browser start page with dynamic themes, weather status, smart search engine switching, and an integrated AI chat panel.

## Features

- Dynamic background theme based on local time (morning/day/evening/night)
- Real-time clock and date display
- Weather widget with configurable API key or proxy
- Network-aware search engine switching (Google/Bing/offline)
- Starfield background effects
- AI chat panel with **Gemini-only** provider support
- Chat history management (new session, rename, delete, clear all)
- Config persistence through `localStorage`

## Project Structure

```text
home/
|-- index.html
|-- css/
|   |-- variables.css
|   |-- base.css
|   |-- animations.css
|   |-- components.css
|   `-- chat.css
|-- js/
|   |-- main.js
|   |-- config.js
|   |-- utils.js
|   |-- time.js
|   |-- theme.js
|   |-- weather.js
|   |-- network.js
|   |-- starfield.js
|   |-- chat.js
|   `-- chat/
|       |-- api.js
|       |-- config.js
|       |-- constants.js
|       |-- custom-select.js
|       |-- history.js
|       |-- markdown.js
|       `-- ui.js
`-- README.md
```

## Usage

### Run locally

1. Open `index.html` directly in your browser, or
2. Start a local static server:

```bash
# Python 3
python -m http.server 8000

# Node.js
npx serve
```

3. Open `http://localhost:8000`.

### Set as browser homepage

- Chrome/Edge: Settings -> On startup -> Open a specific page -> add `file:///path/to/home/index.html`
- Firefox: Settings -> Home -> set homepage to the same file path

## AI Chat Configuration (Gemini Only)

This project supports **Gemini API only** in the chat panel.
OpenAI and Anthropic providers are intentionally not supported.

1. Open the chat panel from the floating chat button.
2. Open chat settings.
3. Configure:
   - **Gemini API URL** (example: `https://generativelanguage.googleapis.com/v1beta`)
   - **Primary API Key**
   - **Backup API Key** (optional)
   - **Gemini Model** (example: `gemini-2.5-pro`)
   - **System Prompt** (optional)
   - **Thinking Budget** (optional)
   - **Web Search** (`Disabled` or `Gemini Google Search`)
4. Click **Save Settings**.

Chat settings are stored in `localStorage` under `llm_chat_config`.
Chat sessions are stored under `llm_chat_history`.

## Weather API Configuration

The weather module uses Seniverse weather APIs. To avoid hardcoding secrets, credentials are not committed to source.

You can configure weather in one of the following ways:

1. Set `weatherApiKey` in browser `localStorage`:

```js
localStorage.setItem('startpage_config', JSON.stringify({
  weatherApiKey: 'YOUR_SENIVERSE_API_KEY'
}));
```

2. Inject global runtime config before app scripts load:

```html
<script>
  window.__STARTPAGE_CONFIG__ = {
    weatherApiKey: 'YOUR_SENIVERSE_API_KEY'
  };
</script>
```

3. Prefer backend proxy mode to avoid exposing keys in frontend code:

```js
localStorage.setItem('startpage_config', JSON.stringify({
  weatherProxyUrl: 'https://your-server.example.com/weather'
}));
```

Seniverse site: https://www.seniverse.com/

## Tech Stack

- Vanilla JavaScript (ES modules)
- HTML + CSS (no build step required)
- Fetch API
- `localStorage` persistence
- Marked + highlight.js for markdown/code rendering in chat

## Browser Compatibility

- Chrome / Edge 90+
- Firefox 88+
- Safari 14+

Requires support for ES modules and CSS variables.

## Customization

### Theme time ranges

Edit `updateBackground()` in `js/theme.js`:

```js
if (hour >= 6 && hour < 8) theme = 'morning';
else if (hour >= 8 && hour < 16) theme = 'day';
else if (hour >= 16 && hour < 18) theme = 'evening';
```

### Theme colors

Edit gradients in `css/variables.css`:

```css
--morning-gradient: linear-gradient(...);
--day-gradient: linear-gradient(...);
--evening-gradient: linear-gradient(...);
--night-gradient: linear-gradient(...);
```

### Update intervals

Edit `CONFIG` in `js/config.js`:

```js
export const CONFIG = {
  WEATHER_UPDATE_INTERVAL: 30 * 60 * 1000,
  NETWORK_CHECK_INTERVAL: 10 * 1000,
  THEME_CHECK_INTERVAL: 60 * 1000,
  TIME_UPDATE_INTERVAL: 1000
};
```

## License

MIT License

## Changelog

### v2.0.0

- Refactored from single-file implementation into modular structure
- Separated CSS and JavaScript concerns
- Improved readability and maintainability

### v1.0.0

- Initial release

Commit message:

modified:   README.md 	modified:   js/chat.js 	modified:   js/chat/api.js 	modified:   js/chat/constants.js

README.md, after:

﻿# Start Page

A modular browser start page with dynamic themes, weather status, smart search engine switching, and an integrated AI chat panel.

## Features

- Dynamic background theme based on local time (morning/day/evening/night)
- Real-time clock and date display
- Weather widget with configurable API key or proxy
- Network-aware search engine switching (Google/Bing/offline)
- Starfield background effects
- AI chat panel with **Gemini-only** provider support
- Chat history management (new session, rename, delete, clear all)
- Config persistence through `localStorage`
- Context-window controls (token budget + message-count budget)
- Assistant message segmentation with `<|CHANGE_ROLE|>` marker

## Project Structure

```text
home/
|-- index.html
|-- css/
|   |-- variables.css
|   |-- base.css
|   |-- animations.css
|   |-- components.css
|   `-- chat.css
|-- js/
|   |-- main.js
|   |-- config.js
|   |-- utils.js
|   |-- time.js
|   |-- theme.js
|   |-- weather.js
|   |-- network.js
|   |-- starfield.js
|   |-- chat.js
|   `-- chat/
|       |-- api.js
|       |-- config.js
|       |-- constants.js
|       |-- custom-select.js
|       |-- history.js
|       |-- markdown.js
|       `-- ui.js
`-- README.md
```

## Usage

### Run locally

1. Open `index.html` directly in your browser, or
2. Start a local static server:

```bash
# Python 3
python -m http.server 8000

# Node.js
npx serve
```

3. Open `http://localhost:8000`.

### Set as browser homepage

- Chrome/Edge: Settings -> On startup -> Open a specific page -> add `file:///path/to/home/index.html`
- Firefox: Settings -> Home -> set homepage to the same file path

## AI Chat Configuration (Gemini Only)

This project supports **Gemini API only** in the chat panel.
OpenAI and Anthropic providers are intentionally not supported.

1. Open the chat panel from the floating chat button.
2. Open chat settings.
3. Configure:
   - **Gemini API URL** (example: `https://generativelanguage.googleapis.com/v1beta`)
   - **Primary API Key**
   - **Backup API Key** (optional)
   - **Gemini Model** (example: `gemini-2.5-pro`)
   - **System Prompt** (optional)
   - **Thinking Budget** (optional)
   - **Web Search** (`Disabled` or `Gemini Google Search`)
   - **Message Prefix**
     - **Add timestamp prefix**: adds a timestamp as a separate centered system-style message before each user message
     - **Add user name prefix**: adds user-name tag (for example `【User】`) to user messages only
     - **User Name**: custom user prefix label
4. Click **Save Settings**.

Chat settings are stored in `localStorage` under `llm_chat_config`.
Chat sessions are stored under `llm_chat_history`.

### Chat behavior notes

- Search grounding sources are not appended to chat bubbles and are not stored in chat context.
- If assistant output includes `<|CHANGE_ROLE|>`, the response is split into multiple assistant messages.
- Each split assistant segment is rendered as an independent bubble and stored as an independent context/history message.
- Timestamp prefix messages are stored as independent context entries (not merged into the user text body).

## Weather API Configuration

The weather module uses Seniverse weather APIs. To avoid hardcoding secrets, credentials are not committed to source.

You can configure weather in one of the following ways:

1. Set `weatherApiKey` in browser `localStorage`:

```js
localStorage.setItem('startpage_config', JSON.stringify({
  weatherApiKey: 'YOUR_SENIVERSE_API_KEY'
}));
```

2. Inject global runtime config before app scripts load:

```html
<script>
  window.__STARTPAGE_CONFIG__ = {
    weatherApiKey: 'YOUR_SENIVERSE_API_KEY'
  };
</script>
```

3. Prefer backend proxy mode to avoid exposing keys in frontend code:

```js
localStorage.setItem('startpage_config', JSON.stringify({
  weatherProxyUrl: 'https://your-server.example.com/weather'
}));
```

Seniverse site: https://www.seniverse.com/

## Tech Stack

- Vanilla JavaScript (ES modules)
- HTML + CSS (no build step required)
- Fetch API
- `localStorage` persistence
- Marked + highlight.js for markdown/code rendering in chat

## Browser Compatibility

- Chrome / Edge 90+
- Firefox 88+
- Safari 14+

Requires support for ES modules and CSS variables.

## Customization

### Theme time ranges

Edit `updateBackground()` in `js/theme.js`:

```js
if (hour >= 6 && hour < 8) theme = 'morning';
else if (hour >= 8 && hour < 16) theme = 'day';
else if (hour >= 16 && hour < 18) theme = 'evening';
```

### Theme colors

Edit gradients in `css/variables.css`:

```css
--morning-gradient: linear-gradient(...);
--day-gradient: linear-gradient(...);
--evening-gradient: linear-gradient(...);
--night-gradient: linear-gradient(...);
```

### Update intervals

Edit `CONFIG` in `js/config.js`:

```js
export const CONFIG = {
  WEATHER_UPDATE_INTERVAL: 30 * 60 * 1000,
  NETWORK_CHECK_INTERVAL: 10 * 1000,
  THEME_CHECK_INTERVAL: 60 * 1000,
  TIME_UPDATE_INTERVAL: 1000
};
```

## License

MIT License

## Changelog

### v2.0.0

- Refactored from single-file implementation into modular structure
- Separated CSS and JavaScript concerns
- Improved readability and maintainability

### v1.0.0

- Initial release
